---
layout: default
title: Helsinki meeting 2019
---

# NordicHPC 2019: Helsinki, 14-15 November

Computing facilities tend to all have the same problems, but every
site tends to have its own solutions.  Big collaborations tend to be
about big hardware or policies, and not so much the day to day
difficulties that we face.  The Nordics already have a special
connection and are a good size to make a grassroots community of
admins working together.

NordicHPC is a meeting of like-minded individuals in the Nordics who
want to work together to make our resources more usable and better
maintained (or even just to make the maintenance easier).  Despite the
name, our focus is *not only* traditional HPC, but we do tend focus on
basic computing infrastructure, not platforms for a specific purpose.

We have a special focus on *usability*, and a vision to match.

We have some program scheduled, but we hope the most important results
come out of spontaneous discussions.  We'll use an "unconference"-type
format for the latter half.  Come prepared to collaborate - this is a
meeting for the doers.


## Registration

Registration is not open yet.  You'll be able to register for
attendance, possible attendance, and remote attendance.

In principle we'll try to make room for anyone in academic computing
centers in the Nordics.


## What you need to prepare

- Suggest a topic or two that we should discuss.
- Prepare to present three cool things and three problems from your site (see below).


## Agenda

We have a preliminary program below, which will continue to be adapted
based on attendee interest.  Spaces can be reserved for any desired
break-out sessions or parallel tracks.

* 14 November.
  * Early arrivals?  Come find us in room A243 or the obvious coffee
    room in the A2 corridor.
  * 11:00 Lunch for those who have arrived
  * 12:00 Afternoon session in room T4
    * Site presentations: Three cool things and three problems
    * Nordic Jupyter
  * Evening: group dinner
* 15 November
  * 09:00 Meeting continues in room T4
    * Software
    * More (suggest topics)
    * Discussing next steps
  * Program ends at 12:00, room reserved until 14:00

**Cool things and problems**: Each site presents around three cool
things that their site does, and three problems they have.  This
becomes a discussion on shared opportunities.  Please come prepared
with something to present and add to [the
slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1zXVxqLQ9E8AEtexIKWWt7AjwmrKLt9HpJCvIGcv7-nQ).
Organizer: Radovan Bast

**Nordic Jupyter**: JupyterHub isn't just a service, but a usable way
of accessing services.  This workshop shares configurations and
knowledge about running JupyterHub for research facilities, and
provides hands-on support for sites to set up their own hub.
Organizer: Richard Darst

**Software**: Deploying scientific software is one of biggest pains of
sysadmins.  Let's share best practices.  We'll discuss Spack,
Easybuild, etc.  Aalto University will present its [automated build
system](https://github.com/AaltoScienceIT/science-build-rules) which
automates Spack, Singularity, and more across multiple systems.

**More/Suggestions**: Suggest your own, either in advance or during
the meeting, by adding to [the agenda google
doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1l5BCK7EWEQ-eNpUbcoPC64SfCoCCJIJ6bTJ7Hn0mGwE).
Slides and material can also be uploaded there.


## Sharing

* Meeting video link, coming later
* [Meeting google drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1f6PwK_ihXoKRbQdyAQ2Kwh7z3h7UuxRh).  Anything added here can be shared among others.
* Meeting presemo (real-time questions and interaction), coming later


## Location

Aalto University campus (Otaniemi), Finland. [Computer Science
building room T4](http://usefulaaltomap.fi/#!/select/T4).  Address:
Konemiehentie 2, Espoo.


## Arrival and practicalities

This is an unfunded event, so each participant is responsible for
their own costs but there is also no registration fee.

Hotels: there is a Radison Blu in Otaniemi which is a common choice.
Downtown Helsinki or Espoo hotels are a reasonable choice if close to
the metro.

Transportation: from the airport, take the train to the central train
station (last stop), then metro to the stop "Aalto University", then
take the B exit.  A single ABC ticket (4.60€) covers *all*
transportation, buy on the train platform.  From Otaniemi to downtown,
an AB ticket (2.80€) works.  [Reittiopas](https://reittiopas.fi) is
the journey planner and there is also a [HSL
app](https://www.hsl.fi/en/app) that lets you buy mobile tickets and
check routes.


## Contact

Richard Darst, richard dot darst at aalto.fi
